=== REF [5] ===
Biblio title: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials of Once-Weekly Semaglutide in Adults With Overweight or Obesity Without Diabetes
Authors: ['A.M.', 'K.P.', 'J.Y.L.']
Year: 2024
DOI: 
URL: https://ajconline.org/article/S00029149(24)00319-9/fulltext
Authority tier: GOLD
Source type: journal_article
Content length: 15000
---
Semaglutide is a glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist that was previously used for the treatment of hyperglycemia in patients with type 2 diabetes. In addition to improving glycemic control, the Semaglutide and Cardiovascular Outcomes in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes (SUSTAIN) trials found that patients randomized to once-weekly subcutaneous semaglutide experienced clinically important weight loss. 1 In 2021, the US Food and Drug Administration approved semaglutide for the treatment of obesity in patients without diabetes. 2 Multiple randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have examined semaglutide for weight loss in patients with overweight/obesity without diabetes, finding that it is efficacious for weight loss in this population. However, previous meta-analyses in this area have not adequately assessed its long-term efficacy. 3–6 Therefore, we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of RCTs to examine the effects of once-weekly subcutaneous 2.4 mg semaglutide on long-term weight loss. Methods We developed and adhered to a prespecified study protocol to perform this systematic review and meta-analysis, publicly preregistered with the Open Science Framework Registries on May 29, 2023 ( http://osf.io/46vsj). The Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) 2020 standards were followed in the reporting of this study. 7We systemically searched the MEDLINE (by way of PubMED), EMBASE (by way of Ovid), and Cochrane CENTRAL databases from their inception to June 29, 2023, to identify relevant trials. We also searched ClinicalTrials.gov for potentially eligible trials that our database search did not identify. Keywords (title/abstract), Medical Subject Headings, and EMTREE terms searched included those for semaglutide, overweight or obesity, and RCTs; the detailed search is listed in Supplementary Table 1. The Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions was used to apply a modified search hedge to limit the findings to RCTs in MEDLINE and EMBASE (by way of Ovid). No language restrictions were used in the search. Duplicates of publications identified by our search were removed after their import into EndNote (Clarivate). 8 The deduplicated search results were then imported into Covidence (Veritas Health Innovation Ltd), a systematic review management software. Using predetermined inclusion and exclusion criteria, 2 authors (A.M. and K.P.) independently screened the titles and abstracts of identified publications to determine eligibility. A citation deemed potentially eligible by either reviewer was carried forward to full-text review, where discrepancies were addressed by consensus or by a third reviewer (J.Y.L.). The included studies were RCTs that randomized participants to once-weekly semaglutide versus placebo, in combination with lifestyle interventions. Once-weekly semaglutide was defined as an injectable subcutaneous 2.4 mg dose of semaglutide that is administered once a week. Pharmacokinetic modeling has suggested that this dose achieves maximum weight loss in adults with overweight/obesity. 9,10 The detailed inclusion and exclusion criteria is listed in Supplementary Appendix 2. A total of 2 authors (A.M. and K.P.) independently extracted data, resolving any discrepancies by consensus or with a third reviewer (J.Y.L.). Intention-to-treat analysis data were extracted for all outcomes, where possible. All screening and data extraction were done using Covidence. Our predetermined primary outcome was change in relative body weight from baseline to the longest available follow-up, by randomized treatment group. The predetermined secondary outcomes included reductions in body weight of 5%, 10%, 15%, or 20%, change in absolute body weight, change in body mass index (BMI), change in waist circumference, change in systolic blood pressure (SBP), and change in diastolic blood pressure (DBP)—all reported from baseline to the last follow-up. The safety outcomes included death, serious adverse events (SAEs), any adverse events (AEs), and AEs leading to trial product discontinuation as defined by the investigators at any time during the treatment period or follow-up. A total of 2 reviewers (A.M. and K.P.) independently assessed the risk of bias in the included RCTs using version 2 of the Cochrane Collaboration's tool for assessing risk of bias in randomized trials (RoB 2), 11 resolving any disagreements by consensus or with third reviewer (J.Y.L.). The RoB 2 tool provided an overall structured assessment of the quality of a randomized trial by dividing it into 5 domains (randomization process, deviations from intended interventions, missing outcome data, measurement of outcome, and selection of reported result). Regardless of study quality, all eligible RCTs were included in our meta-analysis. We used DerSimonian and Laird random-effects meta-analytic models with inverse variance weighting and the Jackson and modified Knapp–Hartung method extensions to pool continuous data across studies to estimate weighted mean differences (WMDs) and corresponding confidence intervals (CIs) or count data to estimate the risk ratios (RRs) and corresponding 95% CIs. Forest plots were used to visually display the results of individual studies and syntheses. Only outcomes reported by at least 3 sufficiently homogeneous and eligible trials were meta-analyzed to ensure meaningful interpretation. The presence of statistical heterogeneity was assessed by using I2 and Tau2 statistics to estimate the amount of between-study variability. We conducted sensitivity analyses using a fixed-effects model with inverse variance weighting for the primary outcome and by restricting to studies at a low risk of bias. All analyses were performed using the meta and metaphor packages in R version 4.2.3. Results Of the 1,310 records screened, 24 were retrieved for full-text review of weight loss trials using semaglutide in patients without diabetes. Our systematic review and meta-analysis included 4 RCTs that met our inclusion criteria ( Figure 1). The included trials were all part of the Semaglutide Treatment Effect in People with Obesity (STEP) program, published between 2021 and 2022. A total of 9 STEP trials have been completed, with all but STEP-7 published. We included STEP-1, STEP-3, STEP-5, and STEP-8. STEP-2 was excluded because its trial population included participants with type 2 diabetes; STEP-4 was excluded because of a lack of placebo control for the first 20 weeks of treatment; STEP-6 was excluded because its trial population focused on East Asian participants; and STEP-TEENS was excluded because its trial population consisted of adolescents aged 12 to 17 years. There was no patient overlap in any of the STEP trials. 12All included trials had similar study designs ( Table 1). A total of 3 of 4 trials had a treatment period of 68 weeks and a maximum follow-up of 75 weeks; STEP-5 had a treatment period of 104 weeks and follow-up of 111 weeks. In all trials, the once-weekly 2.4 mg semaglutide arm included a dose escalation period of 16 weeks. In addition, STEP-8 included an additional active arm of once-daily 3.0 mg liraglutide. All trials had a control arm of visually identical subcutaneous injectable placebo, including matching dose escalation. Participants in STEP-1 and STEP-3 were randomized 2:1 to receive weekly semaglutide or placebo injections, whereas participants in STEP-5 and STEP-8 were randomized 1:1 and 3:1, respectively. In all 4 trials, all arms received lifestyle interventions and counseling that consisted of a reduced-calorie diet, prescribed physical activity, and individual sessions with a registered dietitian or similarly qualified health care professional. A total of 3,087 participants were included across the 4 trials, with 1,991 randomized to once-weekly semaglutide and 1,096 randomized to placebo ( Table 2). All trials enrolled adults who reported at least 1 previous unsuccessful dietary effort to lose weight. Most participants were female (76.3%), and the mean age of each trial was between 46 and 51 years. The mean body weight of each trial was between 102.5 and 108.8 kg, and the mean BMI of each trial was between 37.0 and 38.8 kg/m 2. Excluding STEP-5, which did not report categorized BMI values, 6.0% of participants were overweight and 94.0% were obese. The mean waist circumference of each trial was between 111.8 and 115.7 cm. The mean SBPs and DBPs of each trial was between 123 and 126 and 79 and 81 mm Hg, respectively. The most common co-morbidities included dyslipidemia (36.9%), hypertension (36.4%), knee osteoarthritis (15.3%), and obstructive sleep apnea (13.0%) (Supplementary Table 3). Excluding STEP-5, which did not report the prevalence of co-morbidities, approximately 1/4 of participants (25.8%) had at least 1 co-morbidity, whereas 27.4% had at least 3 (Supplementary Table 4). A total of 3 trials had a low overall RoB 2–defined risk of bias and 1 (STEP-8, n = 211) had some concerns because of the domain of deviations from the intended intervention. This trial, which had an additional active arm, randomized participants (3:1:1:1) to receive once-weekly subcutaneous semaglutide or its matching placebo or once-daily subcutaneous liraglutide or its matching placebo. Randomization to semaglutide or liraglutide was not masked because of the differences in dosing; however, the active treatment groups were double-blinded against matching placebo group (once-weekly placebo injections for the semaglutide group versus once-daily placebo injections for the liraglutide group). To increase power for statistical analyses, both placebo groups were pooled in the results. However, there was no data provided on the outcomes of the individual placebo groups; therefore, the comparability of daily placebo versus weekly active intervention is unclear. A summary of the RoB 2 results stratified by risk domain is reported in Figure 2. Compared with placebo, the long-term use of semaglutide was associated with decreases in relative (WMD −12.1%, 95% CI −13.5 to −10.7) ( Figure 3) and absolute body weight (WMD −12.3 kg, 95% CI −13.6 to −11.0) ( Figure 3). At the end of the treatment period, 85.8% of participants randomized to semaglutide achieved a ≥5% weight loss compared with 34.7% of participants randomized to placebo, and 33.4% of participants randomized to semaglutide achieved ≥20% weight loss compared with 2.2% of participants randomized to placebo (Supplementary Appendix 5, Table 3). Compared with participants randomized to placebo, participants randomized to semaglutide were more likely to achieve ≥5% (RR 2.37, 95% CI 1.67 to 3.36), ≥10% (RR 4.27, 95% CI 2.55 to 7.15), ≥15% (RR 7.12, 95% CI 3.66 to 13.85), and ≥20% weight loss (RR 15.08, 95% CI 9.31 to 24.43) (Supplementary Appendix 5, Table 3). Study-specific continuous and count data are listed in Supplementary Tables 6 and 7. Compared with placebo, semaglutide was associated with decreased BMI (WMD −4.3 kg/m 2, 95% CI −4.9 to −3.7), waist circumference (WMD −9.2 cm, 95% CI −10.0 to −8.4), SBP (WMD −4.8 mm Hg, 95% CI −5.8 to −3.7), and DBP (WMD −2.5 mm Hg, 95% CI −3.2 to −1.8) (Supplementary Appendix 8, Table 3). STEP-8 was not pooled in the meta-analysis because it did not report data for BMI and was missing measures of variance for waist circumference, SBP, and DBP. However, STEP-8 reported similar numbers to the other 3 trials. The continuous trial data for waist circumference, SBP, and DBP are listed in Supplementary Table 6. AEs were commonly reported in almost all participants in both groups (semaglutide 91.8%, placebo 89.3%, RR 1.02, 95% CI 0.97 to 1.08) (Supplementary Appendix 9, Table 4). The majority of these AEs were gastrointestinal (GI) disorders (namely nausea, constipation, diarrhea, and vomiting), which occurred more frequently in the semaglutide group (77.2%) than the placebo group (52.2%, RR 1:47, 95% CI 1.28 to 1.68). Most of the GI disorders were transient, mild-to-moderate in severity, and did not require treatment discontinuation. The pooled incidence of SAEs during the treatment period was numerically higher in the semaglutide group (9.4%) than placebo (6.6%) (RR 1.36, 95% CI 0.51 to 3.60). Of the 6.5% of participants randomized to semaglutide and 3.3% of participants randomized to placebo that discontinued treatment because of any AE, 4.0% and 0.6% were GI-related, respectively (RR 5.36, 95 CI% 1.64 to 17.52). A total of 2 of the 4 studies included in the meta-analysis reported at least 1 death. In total, there were 2 deaths in the semaglutide group and 1 in the placebo group. The causes of death in the 2 participants who received semaglutide were sudden cardiac arrest and myocardial infarction. A total of 3 causes of death were reported in the participant in the placebo group: glioblastoma, aspiration pneumonia, and sepsis. All 3 participants had discontinued their assigned treatment, and none of the deaths were considered to be related to treatment with semaglutide or placebo. The study-specific count data for the safety outcome are listed in Supplementary Table 10. The results of the prespecified sensitivity analyses are listed in Supplementary Appendices 11-12 and Tables 13-14. Overall, the use of a fixed-effects model with inverse variance weighting did not change the primary efficacy endpoints (change in relative and absolute body weight). In addition, the sensitivity analyses restricting to studies with a low risk of bias (excluding STEP-8) produced results that were consistent with our primary analyses. Funnel plots were not constructed and Egger test for small study effects was not performed because the number of included RCTs was <10. Discussion Our study was designed to assess the long-term efficacy and safety of once-weekly semaglutide versus placebo for sustained weight loss in adults with overweight/obesity and without diabetes. We found that the use of once-weekly 2.4 mg semaglutide, compared with placebo, was associated with a substantial increase in long-term relative (−12.1%) and absolute (−12.3 kg) weight loss. A third of participants randomized to semaglutide achieved at least a 20% reduction in body weight by the end of the treatment period compared with 2.2% of participants randomized to placebo. Semaglutide use also led to decreased BMI, waist circumference, SBP, and DBP. The rate of GI AEs was higher in the semaglutide group than in the placebo group; however, the majority of these events were transient and mild-to-moderate in severity and occurred primarily during and shortly after dose escalation. The rate of SAEs, AEs requiring treatment discontinuation, and death were low across all trials. Our results suggest that semaglutide is beneficial for promoting sustained weight loss in adults with overweight/obesity and without diabetes. Older anti-obesity medications, including orlistat, phentermine-topiramate, lorcaserin, and naltrexone-bupropion, have not been as successful as semaglutid