=== REF [24] ===
Biblio title: Ozempic generics are coming. But will low-income countries benefit?
Authors: ['Access to Medicine Foundation']
Year: 2025
DOI: 
URL: https://accesstomedicinefoundation.org/in-the-media/ozempic-generics-are-coming-but-will-low-income-countries-benefit
Authority tier: GOLD
Source type: news
Content length: 1826
---
Date 27 November 2025 Ozempic generics are coming. But will low-income countries benefit? Direct links The global surge in demand for GLP-1 drugs over the last five years has led to tighter supplies and higher prices of essential diabetes care products in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). The article highlights the potential for supply and demand imbalances to be alleviated, with semaglutide’s patent expiring in several major markets in 2026. However, Jayasree Iyer, CEO of the Access to Medicine Foundation, tells Devex that patent expirations may not have the desired impact on availability of essential diabetes products in LMICs, as the demand, the available financing, and the interest of the industry is still focused on the profitability of the obesity and weight loss market. “Just because a patent is expiring, doesn’t mean that immediately you’re going to see the kind of change that you want to see,” she is quoted as saying. She highlights that the profitability of the products has already led pharmaceutical companies to divert resources and production away from the diabetes care market, which remains a concern. The article explains that government tendering could lower drug prices and boost generic registration in low-income countries, but most LMICs are unlikely to implement such guidelines nationally in the near future. Iyer adds that without national reimbursement and procurement policies, generics companies may struggle to reinvest in expanded production capacity and the development of new and improved treatments. However, she notes that coordinated procurement across multiple countries could help improve access, but it will take specific conditions, and a “lot of time, investment and political will,” before access for diabetes patients in the poorest countries improves, she said.