=== REF [30] ===
Biblio title: Cardiometabolic risk factors efficacy of semaglutide in the STEP program
Authors: []
Year: 2022
DOI: 10.1080/00325481.2022.2147325
URL: https://doi.org/10.1080/00325481.2022.2147325
Authority tier: GOLD
Source type: journal_article
Content length: 16262
---
Sci-Hub: статья отсутствует в базе. Что делать? Вот незадача! Полного текста этой статьи нет в моей базе: Cardiometabolic risk factors efficacy of semaglutide in the STEP program Postgraduate Medicine, 2022 People with overweight or obesity often suffer from associated cardiometabolic diseases and comorbidities. Current therapies for obesity include lifestyle intervention, bariatric surgery, and pharmacotherapy. The magnitude of weight loss achieved with these therapies can determine the level of improvement in various comorbidities. Once-weekly subcutaneous semaglutide 2.4 mg is a glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist recently approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of obesity.... 10.1080/00325481.2022.2147325 &rarr; Статья относительно новая - она была опубликована после 2021 года. Такие статьи, в большинстве своем, отсутствуют в базе Sci-Hub по причине сложности их автоматического скачивания в большом количестве. О! Согласно индексу OpenAlex, данная статья находится в открытом доступе. Попробовать скачать её можно тут . Но это не гарантированно, так как индекс часто содержит ошибки. Что делать? Но к счастью, есть такая новая платформа Sci-Net , где можно разместить запрос на статью. Как правило, если статья не какая-то редкая, то её скачают по Вашему запросу в течение нескольких минут. ... после того, как запрос будет решен, статья появится на Sci-Hub и будет всегда доступна бесплатно для любого человека. Таким образом, пользуясь платформой, Вы помогаете проекту Sci-Hub расти, и с каждым новым запросом увеличиваете процент статей в открытом доступе. похожие статьи ... а еще можно посмотреть похожие статьи по той же тематике, которые точно есть в базе данных проекта Impact of BMI and comorbidities on efficacy of once‐weekly semaglutide: Post hoc analyses of the STEP 1 randomized trial Obesity , 2023 Abstract Objective This study assessed the effects of semaglutide on body weight, cardiometabolic risk factors, and glycemic status in individuals categorized by baseline BMI with or without additional obesity‐related comorbidities, including prediabetes and high risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD). Methods This was a post hoc exploratory subgroup analysis of the Semaglutide Treatment Effect in People with Obesity (STEP) 1 trial (NCT03548935), in which participants without diabetes and BMI ≥30 kg/m 2... The Impact Once-Weekly Semaglutide 2.4 mg Will Have on Clinical Practice: A Focus on the STEP Trials Nutrients , 2022 Obesity is a complex and chronic disease that raises the risk of various complications. Substantial reduction in body weight improves these risk factors. Lifestyle changes, including physical activity, reduced caloric ingestion, and behavioral therapy, have been the principal pillars in the management of obesity. In recent years, pharmacologic interventions have improved remarkably. The Semaglutide Treatment Effect in People with Obesity (STEP) program is a collection of phase-III trials geared... Semaglutide 2.4 mg for the Treatment of Obesity: Key Elements of the STEP Trials 1 to 5 Obesity , 2020 Objective The obesity epidemic is a public health concern, warranting further research into pharmacological treatments for weight management (WM) as an adjunct to lifestyle interventions. The Semaglutide Treatment Effect in People with obesity (STEP) program aims to investigate the effect of semaglutide versus placebo on weight loss, safety, and tolerability in adults with obesity or overweight. Methods Across five phase 3 trials (NCT03548935, WM; NCT03552757, WM in type 2 diabetes; NCT03611582, WM with... More Subjects Achieved Composite Reductions of ≥1% HbA1C, ≥5% Body Weight and ≥5 mmHg Systolic Blood Pressure with Semaglutide vs. Comparators (SUSTAIN 1–5, 7) Canadian Journal of Diabetes , 2018 Semaglutide is a new GLP-1 analogue for the once-weekly treatment of type 2 diabetes (T2D). Across the SUSTAIN clinical trial program, subjects with T2D achieved significantly greater reductions in three cardiovascular risk factors with semaglutide vs. placebo or comparators (dulaglutide, exenatide extended release, insulin glargine or sitagliptin): HbA1C, body weight and systolic blood pressure (SBP). Six SUSTAIN trials (SUSTAIN 1–5 and 7) were assessed post hoc to determine to what extent subjects... Efficacy and safety of once-weekly semaglutide for the treatment of type 2 diabetes Expert Opinion on Investigational Drugs , 2017 Type 2 diabetes is a chronic metabolic disease characterized by persistent hyperglycemia resulting from progressive deficient of insulin in patients with a background of insulin resistance. Current treatment algorithms recommended by American Diabetes Association/The European Association for the Study of Diabetes promote a patient-centered approach that takes into account a comprehensive consideration of pharmacological properties of drugs, including glucose-lowering action, effects on body weight,... Semaglutide and effective weight control The Lancet , 2021 The road to ideal pharmacological weight management is full of barriers. Drug misuse and psychiatric disorders with appetite-suppressing sympathomimetics (phentermine, then amfetamine and fenfluramine from the 1940s to the 1980s) are now part of the history of medicine. In fact, because of such problems, these drugs could not be used for more than 3 months. Furthermore, fenfluramine was withdrawn because of heart valve damage and pulmonary hypertension. 1 Cefalu WT Bray GA Home PD et al. Advances in the... Effects of Semaglutide on Symptoms, Function, and Quality of Life in Patients With Heart Failure With Preserved Ejection Fraction and Obesity: A Prespecified Analysis of the STEP-HFpEF Trial Circulation , 2024 Patients with heart failure (HF) with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) and obesity experience a high burden of symptoms and functional impairment, and a poor quality of life. In the STEP-HFpEF trial (Research Study to Investigate How Well Semaglutide Works in People Living With Heart Failure and Obesity), once-weekly semaglutide 2.4 mg improved symptoms, physical limitations, and exercise function, and reduced inflammation and body weight. This prespecified analysis investigated the effects of... Semaglutide in Patients with Obesity-Related Heart Failure and Type 2 Diabetes New England Journal of Medicine , 2024 Among patients with obesity-related heart failure with preserved ejection fraction and type 2 diabetes, semaglutide led to larger reductions in heart failure-related symptoms and physical limitations and greater weight loss than placebo at 1 year. (Funded by Novo Nordisk; STEP-HFpEF DM ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT04916470.). Effects of Semaglutide Versus Dulaglutide on Epicardial Fat Thickness in Subjects with Type 2 Diabetes and Obesity Journal of the Endocrine Society , 2020 Epicardial adipose tissue (EAT), the visceral fat depot of the heart, is a modifiable cardio-metbolic risk factor and therapeutic target. Semaglutide and dulaglutide, glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists, are indicated for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). GLP-1 receptor agonists have recently shown to reduce cardiovascular risk. Epicardial adipose tissue expresses GLP-1 receptors (GLP-1Rs). GLP-1 receptor agonist liraglutide is known to significantly decrease EAT thickness.... Semaglutide 2·4 mg once a week in adults with overweight or obesity, and type 2 diabetes (STEP 2): a randomised, double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial The Lancet , 2021 This trial assessed the efficacy and safety of the GLP-1 analogue once a week subcutaneous semaglutide 2·4 mg versus semaglutide 1·0 mg (the dose approved for diabetes treatment) and placebo for weight management in adults with overweight or obesity, and type 2 diabetes.This double-blind, double-dummy, phase 3, superiority study enrolled adults with a body-mass index of at least 27 kg/m2 and glycated haemoglobin 7-10% (53-86 mmol/mol) who had been diagnosed with type 2 diabetes at least 180 days before... Semaglutide and Cardiovascular Outcomes in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes New England Journal of Medicine , 2017 To the Editor: In reporting the results of the Trial to Evaluate Cardiovascular and Other Longterm Outcomes with Semaglutide in Subjects with Type 2 Diabetes (SUSTAIN-6), Marso et al. (Nov.10 issue) 1 describe a lower rate of cardiovascular events among patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who received the glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) analogue semaglutide than among patients who received placebo.Their results are consistent with those in the Liraglutide Effect and Action in Diabetes: Evaluation of... EFFECTS OF SEMAGLUTIDE VERSUS COMPARATORS ON CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS ACROSS A CONTINUUM OF BASELINE CARDIOVASCULAR RISK: COMBINED ANALYSIS OF THE SUSTAIN AND PIONEER TRIALS Journal of the American College of Cardiology , 2020 In patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D) at high risk of CV events, there were fewer major adverse CV events (MACE) with semaglutide vs placebo (HRs [95% CIs]: 0.74 [0.58;0.95] for subcutaneous, 0.79 [0.57;1.11] for oral semaglutide). However, the effects of semaglutide on MACE in those at low- Clinical Insight on Semaglutide for Chronic Weight Management in Adults: Patient Selection and Special Considerations Drug Design, Development and Therapy , 2022 Abstract: Losses of 5– 10% or more of initial body weight are associated with improvements in obesity-related comorbidities. However, attaining and sustaining this level of weight loss is challenging. The novel anti-obesity medication semaglutide 2.4 mg injected subcutaneously once weekly as an adjunct to a reduced-calorie diet and physical activity helps patients achieve average losses of 9.6– 17.4% of initial body weight at week 68, as well as improvements in cardiometabolic and psychosocial indices.... Atrial Fibrillation and Semaglutide Effects in Obesity-Related Heart Failure With Preserved Ejection Fraction Journal of the American College of Cardiology , 2024 Obesity is a key factor in the development and progression of both heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) and atrial fibrillation (AF). In the STEP-HFpEF Program (comprising the STEP-HFpEF [Research Study to Investigate How Well Semaglutide Works in People Living With Heart Failure and Obesity] and STEP-HFpEF DM [Research Study to Look at How Well Semaglutide Works in People Living With Heart Failure, Obesity and Type 2 Diabetes] trials), once-weekly semaglutide 2.4 mg improved HF-related... Oral Semaglutide in Type 2 Diabetes: Clinical–Metabolic Outcomes and Quality of Life in Real-World Practice Journal of Clinical Medicine , 2024 Background: Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 RAs) are a novel class of incretin mimetics for treating type 2 diabetes (T2D). This study evaluated the impact of semaglutide, the first oral GLP-1RA, on glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), fasting plasma glucose (FPG), and body composition and anthropometric parameters. Additionally, the effects on cardiovascular risk factors and quality of life (QoL) in T2D patients were assessed. Methods: A prospective observational study with a six-month... Semaglutide for cardiovascular event reduction in people with overweight or obesity: SELECT study baseline characteristics Obesity , 2022 Abstract Objective This paper describes the baseline characteristics of the Semaglutide Effects on Heart Disease and Stroke in Patients with Overweight or Obesity (SELECT) study, one of the largest cardiovascular (CV) outcome studies in the field of obesity, which evaluates the effect of semaglutide versus placebo on major CV events. Methods SELECT enrolled individuals with overweight or obesity without diabetes, with prior myocardial infarction, stroke, and/or peripheral artery disease. This study reports... Semaglutide and Tirzepatide in Patients With Heart Failure With Preserved Ejection Fraction JAMA , 2025 Importance Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) is a major cause of hospitalization, often occurring in patients with cardiometabolic comorbidities such as obesity and type 2 diabetes. Although early trials of semaglutide and tirzepatide have shown promising results in improving symptoms, those findings were based on few clinical events, leaving treatment recommendations uncertain. Objective To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of semaglutide and tirzepatide in patients with... Semaglutide: Charting New Horizons in GLP-1 Analogue Outcome Studies Diabetes Therapy , 2020 The growing epidemic of obesity and diabetes represents a growing health emergency, exemplified by a marked increase in cardiovascular and renal disease. As such, healthcare systems are increasingly focussing on therapeutic approaches to address these challenges. Cardiovascular outcome trials (CVOTs) evaluating glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) analogues have previously observed significant improvements in major adverse cardiac events in people with type 2 diabetes (T2D). However, their impact in obese... Oral Semaglutide, A New Option in the Management of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus: A Narrative Review Advances in Therapy , 2020 According to current guidelines, glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists are the antidiabetic agent of choice in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and established cardiovascular disease (CVD) and are also the preferable antidiabetic agent in patients with T2DM without CVD but with indicators of high cardiovascular risk. A limitation in the use of GLP-1 receptor agonists is that they are delivered by subcutaneous injections. In this context, the development of an orally administered... Comparative efficacy, safety, and cardiovascular outcomes with once-weekly subcutaneous semaglutide in the treatment of type 2 diabetes: Insights from the SUSTAIN 1–7 trials Diabetes & Metabolism , 2019 In individuals with type 2 diabetes, glycaemic control and cardiovascular risk factor management reduces the likelihood of late-stage diabetic complications. Guidelines recommend treatment goals targeting HbA1c, body weight, blood pressure, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Development of new treatments for type 2 diabetes requires an understanding of their mechanism and efficacy, as well as their relative effects compared to other treatment choices, plus demonstration of cardiovascular safety.... Oral Semaglutide and Cardiovascular Outcomes in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes New England Journal of Medicine , 2019 Establishing cardiovascular safety of new therapies for type 2 diabetes is important. Safety data are available for the subcutaneous form of the glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist semaglutide but are needed for oral semaglutide.We assessed cardiovascular outcomes of once-daily oral semaglutide in an event-driven, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial involving patients at high cardiovascular risk (age of ≥50 years with established cardiovascular or chronic kidney disease, or age of... Cardiovascular outcome trials in obesity: A review Obesity Reviews , 2020 Obesity is a global epidemic associated with over 200 health complications and a significant risk of developing cardiovascular disease (CVD), partly by increasing classical risk factors such as lipid and glucose levels and blood pressure. Weight loss through lifestyle interventions, pharmacotherapy and/or bariatric surgery improves CV risk factors. Cardiovascular outcome trials (CVOTs) of anti-obesity medications aim to evaluate the CV safety and benefits of pharmacotherapy. Many CVOTs in obesity have... SEMAGLUTIDE CONSISTENTLY REDUCES CARDIOVASCULAR RISK IN PATIENTS WITH TYPE 2 DIABETES REGARDLESS OF BASELINE CARDIOVASCULAR RISK LEVEL: POST HOC ANALYSES OF THE SUSTAIN TRIAL PROGRAM Canadian Journal of Cardiology , 2018 Semaglutide is a glucagon-like peptide-1 analogue for the once-weekly treatment of type 2 diabetes (T2D). Treatment with semaglutide led to significant reductions in HbA1c and body weight vs all comparators across the SUSTAIN phase 3a clinical trial program. This analysis aimed to assess the consistency of the cardiovascular (CV) effect of semaglutide across subgroups at different CV risk levels in SUSTAIN 6. Additionally,