=== REF [4] ===
Biblio title: The Upcoming Weekly Tides (Semaglutide vs. Tirzepatide) against Obesity: STEP or SURPASS?
Authors: []
Year: 2022
DOI: 10.7570/jomes22012
URL: https://jomes.org/journal/download_pdf.php?doi=10.7570%2Fjomes22012
Authority tier: GOLD
Source type: journal_article
Content length: 15628
---
Sci-Hub: статья отсутствует в базе. Что делать? Вот незадача! Полного текста этой статьи нет в моей базе: The Upcoming Weekly Tides (Semaglutide vs. Tirzepatide) against Obesity: STEP or SURPASS? Journal of Obesity & Metabolic Syndrome, 2022 The rapidly increasing prevalence of obesity and obesity-associated morbidity is causing an ever-increasing global burden. Beyond lifestyle modifications, pharmacological approaches to losing body weight to achieve a decrease in cardiometabolic complications are in the spotlight. Pre-existing anti-obesity medications (AOMs) approved for long-term prescription use showed a weight reduction of around 5% more than placebo. In contrast to the modest efficacy of pre-existing AOMs, two newly developed,... 10.7570/jomes22012 &rarr; Статья относительно новая - она была опубликована после 2021 года. Такие статьи, в большинстве своем, отсутствуют в базе Sci-Hub по причине сложности их автоматического скачивания в большом количестве. О! Согласно индексу OpenAlex, данная статья находится в открытом доступе. Попробовать скачать её можно тут . Но это не гарантированно, так как индекс часто содержит ошибки. Что делать? Но к счастью, есть такая новая платформа Sci-Net , где можно разместить запрос на статью. Как правило, если статья не какая-то редкая, то её скачают по Вашему запросу в течение нескольких минут. ... после того, как запрос будет решен, статья появится на Sci-Hub и будет всегда доступна бесплатно для любого человека. Таким образом, пользуясь платформой, Вы помогаете проекту Sci-Hub расти, и с каждым новым запросом увеличиваете процент статей в открытом доступе. похожие статьи ... а еще можно посмотреть похожие статьи по той же тематике, которые точно есть в базе данных проекта Tirzepatide as Compared with Semaglutide for the Treatment of Obesity New England Journal of Medicine , 2025 Tirzepatide and semaglutide are highly effective medications for obesity management. The efficacy and safety of tirzepatide as compared with semaglutide in adults with obesity but without type 2 diabetes is unknown. In this phase 3b, open-label, controlled trial, adult participants with obesity but without type 2 diabetes were randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive the maximum tolerated dose of tirzepatide (10 mg or 15 mg) or the maximum tolerated dose of semaglutide (1.7 mg or 2.4 mg) subcutaneously... Comparative efficacy and safety of semaglutide 2.4 mg and tirzepatide 5–15 mg in obesity with or without type 2 diabetes: A systematic review of Phase 3 clinical trials Diabetes & Metabolic Syndrome: Clinical Research & Reviews , 2025 Comparative effectiveness of glucagon‐like peptide‐1 receptor agonists for the management of obesity in adults without diabetes: A network meta‐analysis of randomized clinical trials Obesity Reviews , 2022 Summary Tirzepatide is a new glucagon‐like peptide‐1 receptor agonist (GLP‐1RA) that has shown promising results for weight loss. A Bayesian network meta‐analysis was conducted to compare the efficacy and safety of GLP‐1RAs for obesity management. Embase and MEDLINE were searched looking for randomized clinical trials (RCTs) that evaluated the efficacy of GLP‐1RAs for weight loss in patients without diabetes. The main efficacy outcomes evaluated were the mean change in actual and percentage... Tirzepatide. Dual GLP-1/GIP receptor agonist, Treatment of type 2 diabetes and obesity Drugs of the Future , 2023 Tirzepatide is a combined glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) receptor agonist. This review will summarize the pharmacological aspects of tirzepatide with a focus on the clinical efficacy and safety reported in the trial programs underlying the regulatory approval for the treatment of type 2 diabetes (T2D) and obesity in the U.S. and Europe. In a range of trials, tirzepatide has been compared to placebo, insulin and GLP-1 mono-receptor agonists. The trials... Beyond glycemia: Comparing tirzepatide to GLP-1 analogues Reviews in Endocrine and Metabolic Disorders , 2023 Abstract Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor analogs (GLP-1 RAs) have been an innovative and instrumental drug class in the management of both type 2 diabetes and obesity. Tirzepatide is a novel agent that acts as an agonist for both GLP-1 receptors and gastric inhibitory polypeptide (GIP) receptors, another incretin that lowers glucose and appetite. Although previous studies showed a lack of therapeutic benefit for GIP agonists, current studies show that the glucose lowering and weight loss effects of... Semaglutide and effective weight control The Lancet , 2021 The road to ideal pharmacological weight management is full of barriers. Drug misuse and psychiatric disorders with appetite-suppressing sympathomimetics (phentermine, then amfetamine and fenfluramine from the 1940s to the 1980s) are now part of the history of medicine. In fact, because of such problems, these drugs could not be used for more than 3 months. Furthermore, fenfluramine was withdrawn because of heart valve damage and pulmonary hypertension. 1 Cefalu WT Bray GA Home PD et al. Advances in the... Efficacy and safety of a novel dual GIP and GLP-1 receptor agonist tirzepatide in patients with type 2 diabetes (SURPASS-1): a double-blind, randomised, phase 3 trial The Lancet , 2021 Despite advancements in care, many people with type 2 diabetes do not meet treatment goals; thus, development of new therapies is needed. We aimed to assess efficacy, safety, and tolerability of novel dual glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide and GLP-1 receptor agonist tirzepatide monotherapy versus placebo in people with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled by diet and exercise alone.We did a 40-week, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial (SURPASS-1), at 52 medical... Tirzepatide versus Semaglutide Once Weekly in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes New England Journal of Medicine , 2021 In patients with type 2 diabetes, tirzepatide was noninferior and superior to semaglutide with respect to the mean change in the glycated hemoglobin level from baseline to 40 weeks. (Funded by Eli Lilly; SURPASS-2 ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT03987919.). Semaglutide as a promising antiobesity drug Obesity Reviews , 2019 Semaglutide is a glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist (GLP-1 RA) with a long elimination half-life, allowing subcutaneous (sc) administration once per week. Both the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recently approved once-weekly sc semaglutide for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). The weight loss efficacy of once-weekly sc semaglutide appears to be superior compared with the other once-weekly GLP-1 RAs in patients with T2DM. Semaglutide was... The Impact Once-Weekly Semaglutide 2.4 mg Will Have on Clinical Practice: A Focus on the STEP Trials Nutrients , 2022 Obesity is a complex and chronic disease that raises the risk of various complications. Substantial reduction in body weight improves these risk factors. Lifestyle changes, including physical activity, reduced caloric ingestion, and behavioral therapy, have been the principal pillars in the management of obesity. In recent years, pharmacologic interventions have improved remarkably. The Semaglutide Treatment Effect in People with Obesity (STEP) program is a collection of phase-III trials geared... Comparison of Dose Escalation Versus Switching to Tirzepatide Among People With Type 2 Diabetes Inadequately Controlled on Lower Doses of Dulaglutide Annals of Internal Medicine , 2025 Tirzepatide, a once-weekly glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide and glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist approved for the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes or obesity, showed clinically meaningful reductions in hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) and body weight in the SURPASS phase 3 clinical trial program. To compare efficacy and safety of escalation of dulaglutide dose versus switching to tirzepatide in inadequately controlled type 2 diabetes. Multicenter, randomized, open-label, phase 4 trial... Semaglutide 2·4 mg once a week in adults with overweight or obesity, and type 2 diabetes (STEP 2): a randomised, double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial The Lancet , 2021 This trial assessed the efficacy and safety of the GLP-1 analogue once a week subcutaneous semaglutide 2·4 mg versus semaglutide 1·0 mg (the dose approved for diabetes treatment) and placebo for weight management in adults with overweight or obesity, and type 2 diabetes.This double-blind, double-dummy, phase 3, superiority study enrolled adults with a body-mass index of at least 27 kg/m2 and glycated haemoglobin 7-10% (53-86 mmol/mol) who had been diagnosed with type 2 diabetes at least 180 days before... Tirzepatide for Obesity Treatment and Diabetes Prevention New England Journal of Medicine , 2025 Three years of treatment with tirzepatide in persons with obesity and prediabetes resulted in substantial and sustained weight reduction and a markedly lower risk of progression to type 2 diabetes than that with placebo. (Funded by Eli Lilly; SURMOUNT-1 ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT04184622.). GLP-1-Mimetika — wegweisend zur Behandlung von Diabetes und Adipositas BIOspektrum , 2023 Abstract Most obese patients would benefit from 5–10 % of weight loss but fail when using non-surgical approaches. The recent development of two anti-obesity drugs may change that therapeutic gap. Patients receiving long-acting glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP1) agonist semaglutide achieve weight loss above 10 %. With tirzepatide, a co-agonist for GLP-1 and the gastric inhibitory polypeptide (GIP) receptor, more than 50 % of the patients even lose above 20 %, which rivals the efficacy of surgical... Clinical Insight on Semaglutide for Chronic Weight Management in Adults: Patient Selection and Special Considerations Drug Design, Development and Therapy , 2022 Abstract: Losses of 5– 10% or more of initial body weight are associated with improvements in obesity-related comorbidities. However, attaining and sustaining this level of weight loss is challenging. The novel anti-obesity medication semaglutide 2.4 mg injected subcutaneously once weekly as an adjunct to a reduced-calorie diet and physical activity helps patients achieve average losses of 9.6– 17.4% of initial body weight at week 68, as well as improvements in cardiometabolic and psychosocial indices.... Once-weekly tirzepatide versus once-daily insulin degludec as add-on to metformin with or without SGLT2 inhibitors in patients with type 2 diabetes (SURPASS-3): a randomised, open-label, parallel-group, phase 3 trial The Lancet , 2021 Background Tirzepatide is a novel dual glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide and GLP-1 receptor agonist under development for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. We aimed to assess the efficacy and safety of tirzepatide versus titrated insulin degludec in people with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled by metformin with or without SGLT2 inhibitors. Methods In this open-label, parallel-group, multicentre (122 sites), multinational (13 countries), phase 3 study, eligible participants (aged ≥18... Tirzepatide Once Weekly for the Treatment of Obesity New England Journal of Medicine , 2022 In this 72-week trial in participants with obesity, 5 mg, 10 mg, or 15 mg of tirzepatide once weekly provided substantial and sustained reductions in body weight. (Supported by Eli Lilly; SURMOUNT-1 ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT04184622.). Tirzepatide: A Systematic Update International Journal of Molecular Sciences , 2022 Tirzepatide is a new molecule capable of controlling glucose blood levels by combining the dual agonism of Glucose-Dependent Insulinotropic Polypeptide (GIP) and Glucagon-Like Peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptors. GIP and GLP1 are incretin hormones: they are released in the intestine in response to nutrient intake and stimulate pancreatic beta cell activity secreting insulin. GIP and GLP1 also have other metabolic functions. GLP1, in particular, reduces food intake and delays gastric emptying. Moreover,... A systematic review and meta-analysis of the efficacy and safety of pharmacological treatments for obesity in adults Nature Medicine , 2025 This systematic review and network meta-analysis evaluated the efficacy and safety of obesity management medications (OMMs) in terms of reducing body weight and impact on obesity-related complications. Here a Medline and Embase search was performed up to 31 January 2025 for randomized controlled trials comparing OMMs versus placebo/active comparators in adults. Primary endpoint was percentage of total body weight loss (TBWL%) at the end of the study. Secondary endpoints were TBWL% at 1, 2 and ≥3 years,... Diabetes drug is effective for weight control, study shows Pharmacy Today , 2021 New data support the use of once-weekly S.C. semaglutide plus lifestyle intervention for weight control in patients who are overweight or obese. In a recent clinical trial, patients given semaglutide 2.4 mg weekly lost an average of 15% of their body weight over a 16-month period compared with a 2.4% loss for those given placebo. Novo Nordisk filed a new drug application with FDA in December 2020 seeking approval for use of semaglutide for weight management. “This is by far the most effective... Effect of Weekly Subcutaneous Semaglutide vs Daily Liraglutide on Body Weight in Adults With Overweight or Obesity Without Diabetes JAMA , 2022 ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT04074161. Tirzepatide for the treatment of obesity: Rationale and design of the SURMOUNT clinical development program Obesity , 2022 Obesity is a growing global concern compounded by limited availability of effective treatment options. The SURMOUNT development program aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of tirzepatide as an adjunct to lifestyle intervention compared with placebo on chronic weight management in adults with BMI ≥ 27 kg/m2 with or without type 2 diabetes.The SURMOUNT program includes four global phase 3 trials NCT04184622 (SURMOUNT-1), NCT04657003 (SURMOUNT-2), NCT04657016 (SURMOUNT-3), and NCT04660643 (SURMOUNT-4).... Real‐World Cardiovascular Outcomes of Obesity Treatment With Tirzepatide Versus Semaglutide in Non‐Diabetic Adults Diabetes Obesity and Metabolism , 2026 In obese individuals without diabetes, tirzepatide was associated with a lower risk of cardiovascular events, especially incident HF, compared with semaglutide, with a similar safety profile. Efficacy and safety of once-weekly semaglutide for the treatment of type 2 diabetes Expert Opinion on Investigational Drugs , 2017 Type 2 diabetes is a chronic metabolic disease characterized by persistent hyperglycemia resulting from progressive deficient of insulin in patients with a background of insulin resistance. Current treatment algorithms recommended by American Diabetes Association/The European Association for the Study of Diabetes promote a patient-centered approach that takes into account a comprehensive consideration of pharmacological properties of drugs, including glucose-lowering action, effects on body weight,... The efficacy and safety of dual GIP/GLP1 receptor agonists (tirzepatide) in diabetes and obesity: a systematic review and network meta-analysis Expert Opinion on Drug Safety , 2025 Tirzepatide provides superior weight loss, glycemic improvements, and favorable safety versus insulin and other comparators, supporting its role as a leading therapy for type 2 diabetes and obesity. Semaglutide and Tirzepatide in Patients With Heart Failure With Preserved Ejection Fraction JAMA , 202